Harberger Interest Rate
==============

Owning land in a blockchain harberger registry is similar to if you bought land in the legacy system, and used a mortgage on half the value of the land.
But  instead of selling half the land to the bank, the blockchain holds the other half of the land.

The way this would look is that the land would be worth 1/2 of it's value in the legacy system, and when you buy it, it automatically has the obligation to make regular payments for rent on the other 1/2.

When we talk about the portion of the land that is mortgaged, what that means is the ratio between the tax rate, and how much a person needs to pay to buy the land from the current owner.

If the tax rate is 1% of the value of the land annualized, then we can calculate the effective portion of the land that is mortgaged like this:
(portion mortgaged) = (tax rate)/((tax rate) + (interest rate))

The interest rate of the economy is not fixed. It depends on things like the price that governments sell their bonds, and the birth rate. We would like to know how the interest rate is going to impact the investments that people make in the harberger land registry. To make sure everything is incentive compatible.

Imagine we started with an interest rate of 4%, and a tax rate of 2%. in that case, 1/3 of the land is in mortgage. Out of the profit you make from the land, about 1/3rd goes to Amoveo to pay the tax.
But if the interest rate fell to 1%, that would mean the land is now 2/3rds mortgaged. Out of the profit from the land, about 2/3rds go to Amoveo for the tax.
So you might think that a falling interest rate is harmful to participants in the land registry.

But there is a secondary effect. When the interest rate goes down, assuming the profit generated by the land did not change, this causes the value of the land to go up.
If the interest rate falls from 4% to 1%, then the land's value increases by a factor of 4x.

So lets say you payed $40k for the land when the interest rate was 4%. That means your mortgage to Amoveo is $20k, and in total the land is worth $60k.
When the interest rate goes down to 1%, the price of the land increases to a total of $240k. But now you only own 1/3rd. So your portion of the land is worth $80k, and amoveo's portion is worth $160k.

So when the land increases in value 4x due to a change in interest rate, that means your investment increased in value 2x.
Or the reverse. if the land decreases in value 4x, then your investment only decreases by 2x.

So the effect of the harberger system is that it is shielding investors from volatility due to a changing interest rate.

Compare this to our current fiat debt-based economy.
If you own a $60k property, and do a $20k mortgage.
Then the interest rate drops from 4% to 1%.
Now the property is worth $240k, but you still only owe $20k on the mortgage.

The reverse case is even more destructive.
If you start with a $240k property, and $160k of it is mortgaged, then the interest rate increases from 1% to 4%. that means your property is now only worth $80k, but you still owe $160k on the mortgage. you are upside down on your investment.

Going upside down on your investment is impossible with the harberger system.
The mortgage is always (value of property) * (tax rate) / ((tax rate) + (interest rate))
so it is always less than (value of the property). 
So you can never end up upside down.

The harberger system is providing all the advantages of a mortgage:
* cheaper to buy the property.
* more leverage on your investment.

But the harberger system does not have the risks of the mortgage system:
* you can lose everything to the bank if the interest rate changes a little.

It makes me think that our current fiat debt based system was optimized for the banks, not for the customers.